now let us look at how to create simple
objects here in the Houdini interface
the most easiest way to create an object
in the interface is on the create tab
here at the top by clicking on any of
the objects here in the create tab I get
a bounding box in the 3d view which lets
me position the particular object
anywhere in the scene by clicking with
my mouse i position it at that location
apart from that if I want to create the
object directly at the origin of my
construction plane I can control click
on the object and it directly gets
created at the center now using my
manipulator tool I can move the object
and rotate it to wherever I want to
apart from this you will also observe
that every time I create an object I am
creating specific nodes here in my
network view these nodes actually
represent the different objects and as
you can see by clicking on the objects
here in the network view I also select
them in the viewport now also anytime I
actually create an object I also get
additional parameters of the object here
at the top I can change the different
elements of the object on how the object
is actually being created right here in
the top bind choose different settings I
want to now for creating objects let's
see how to create them off the
construction plane when I am clicking on
any of the objects here you can see that
I get a bounding box which represents
where the object gets created if I hold
Shift key on my keyboard and move my
mouse you can see the object gets
displaced from the construction plane
and now I'm offsetting the object and
still get to place it wherever I want in
the scene but this time I get to
position it in exact three dimensions
rather than only on the construction
plane now finally in the 3d view let's
see how to go ahead and edit the
construction plane itself
because most times you might want to
have a smaller or larger construction
plane to do this open the camera menu
here at the top right corner here enable
the construction plane handle when you
enable this you get additional gizmos
here in the viewport make sure you are
in the manipulator handle tool if you're
in any other tool the construction
handles are grayed out now you can go
ahead
and pull out the construction plane and
edit the entire settings you can also
move it using the movement handles in
the center and also go ahead and rotate
the entire construction plane once you
have done all of these edits you can go
ahead and create an object and this time
the object gets placed on the
construction plane itself which is no
longer aligned to the world axis finally
if you want to go ahead and reset the
construction plane you can go under the
same menu down under set construction
plane as you can see you have several
options here I'll go ahead and just
select revert to defaults
once I click this my construction plane
is back to defaults I'll go back until
turn off construction plane handle and
I'm back to the way it was there are a
few other ways of creating objects
within Houdini the other easiest method
of creating objects is right here in the
3d view itself you can go ahead and
press tab and this will open a small tab
menu where you can start typing in the
object you want to create let's say I
want to create the box so by typing in
the word box it autocompletes and gives
me the option to create a box by
pressing enter you can see I can easily
create it right here without going into
my create shelf
apart from that similarly even when I'm
in the network view I can go ahead press
tab anywhere in the empty region and go
ahead select any of the primitives I
want to create or so many other elements
which are available every single note
that you create in Houdini comes with
additional flags on both ends of the
node on this particular box node we have
created you can see the green and blue
flag the blue flag signifies whether or
not an object is actually visible so if
I go ahead and zoom into the viewport
and disable this blue flag you can see
the object is no longer visible but it
can still be manipulated so I've just
moved the box while it was invisible and
if I enable the view you can see it's
displaced also in another way if I tell
that the object is no longer selectable
I can no longer select the object here
in the 3d view to observe this let me
create another primitive I'll just
create a spear now if I go ahead and try
to select the cube you can see that I
can no longer do
so but by clicking on the box object
here I can easily select it whereas by
clicking on the spear I can select that
so this is a selection handle which
tells the object is templated and this
is the display flag which tells whether
if an object is hidden so that brings us
to the end of this particular video here
we saw the basics of creating and
manipulating objects in the next video
I'll walk you through the basics of
using expressions in Houdini if you have
any critics comments or doubts about
this videos you can go ahead and put
them in the comment section and I'll do
whatever I can to help you if you found
my material useful please don't forget
to subscribe like and share thank you
I'll see you in the next video